---
description: 'Here are the next topics you can expect to see content about:'
---

# What is NEXT?!

* PCI-DSS; SOX Act; COBIT; ISO/IEC 27001:2013; HIPAA; FISMA, Patriot Act, Privacy Act of 1974, Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act \(CISPA\), Consumer Data Security and Notification Act and Computer Security Act of 1987.
* Blackbox/Opaque vs Whitebox/Clear testing vs Gray/_Translucid?_ testing \(limited knowledge about target - privilege escalation from _trusted insider_ scenario\); Phases of Hacking/Pen-testing; What is a Penetration Test?, 3 Main Phases, and Scope.;  Types of Hackers according to their **intent;** Security Policies; CIA Triad
* Annualized Loss Expectancy \(ALE\), Annual Rate of Occurrence \(ARO\) and SLE \(Single Loss Expectancy\). Exposure Factor \(EF\) and how to obtain SLE \(EF x Value of Asset\); Risk Management steps, Control types. Business Impact Analysis, Maximum Tolerable Downtime \(MTD\). Business Continuity Plan \(BCP\), Disaster Recovery Plan \(DRP\).
* Security, Functionality and Usability triangle, zero day attack, payload, exploit, daisy-chaining, bots, doxing, incident response... 
* Social Engineering, email tracking, web spidering and other footprinting such as Google Hacking/Dorks; Business Intelligence/Marketing Tools/Financial Data
* DNS Foot-printing; _name-server, record types_ and possible _operations_
* What is footprinting?
* Vulnerability Research, exploit news, zero-days, [National Vulnerability Database](https://nvd.nist.gov/), [Securitytracker](http://www.securitytracker.com/), [Hackerstorm Vulnerability Database Tool,](http://www.hackerstorm.com/) [Security Focus](http://www.securityfocus.com/) **\(Add More\)**
* **SMTP - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol** - VRFY \(Verify User\), EXPN \(Provides the actual delivery addresses of mailing lists and aliases\), RCPT TO \(which defines recipients\), types of responses to each request from the servers; Lack of encryption; authentication via user ID + password transmitted in plaintext. 
* Network Time Protocol \(123/UDP\) - Queries can reveal internal infrastructure components information. Tools such as NTP Server Scanner, AtomSync, nmap, Wireshark. ntptrace, ntpdc, ntpq. 
* Lightweight Directory Access Protocol \(LDAP\), _made_ to be queried. Sessions are started on 389/TCP connecting to DSA \(Directory System Agent\). Request queries the hierarchical/logical structure in LDAP DB and returns a BER \(Basic Encoding Rules\) answer. usernames, domain info, addresses and phone numbers as well as organizational data. Softerra, JXplorer, Lex, LDAP Admin Tool, AD MS.; LDAP Injection attack, exploiting applications that use LDAP statements based on user input - done via adding characters \)\(&\) after the username + any passwd provided. 
* SNMP - community strings as passwords. Read-only version of the community string allows read over a wide surface of information. Read-write controls access for SNMP SET requests; SNMPv1, NNTP, IMAP and POP3 send their passwd over plaintext as well. 
* NETBIOS - MS Windows - TCP; nbstat provides enumeration vector - code and types
* Banner grabbing - methods
* SIDs, domain/computer indicator, RID. Windows password storage; Linux UID, GID similarities and differences with MS Windows SIDs and RIDs. 
* Vulnerability scanning
* Anonymize your traffic via the use of web proxies - guardster, ultrasurf, Psiphon, and Tails \(Lin Distro\)
* Tor clients, directory servers. Process of random connections and its encryption
* Different proxies and methods to disguise source of traffic. Proxy chains. Proxy Switcher, Workbench, Proxy Chains, Soft-cab's Proxy Chain Builder, and Proxifier.
* Source routing as a method to determine the routing path to a destination \(overriding the routing tables of network infrastructure devices in said path\)
* Spoofing an IP address, packet crafting tools: Hping, Scapy, and Komodia.
* Packet Fragmentation, in hopes of evading an IDS that theoretically would not pick up on other than seemingly disconnected traffic that in reality could be reassembled on the client machine as a malicious payload; nmap can also run scans fragmenting packets. 
*  Hping2,3 - ping sweeping, port scanning, packet-crafting tool \(TCP/IP\)
* Nmap port scanning, vulnerability scanning, nmapAutomator 
* Ping sweeping - how to do it in Python, [Bash](network-and-systems/topics/code/code-bash/ping-sweeping-with-bash.md)
* Definition of Scanning 
* Definition of Sniffing, honeypot,  HTTP tunneling evasion technique; session splicing/fragmentation; types of sniffing; same collision domain sniffing - passive sniffing; definition of a collision domain; method to sniff on a collision domain \(promiscuous mode NIC\); 
* Difference between packet filtering firewalls, stateful multilayer inspection firewalls; purpose of the firewall, methods of work; rule-sets and their role; [Zone-based Firewall](network-and-systems/topics/network/zone-based-policy-firewall-also-known-as-zone-policy-firewall-or-zfw.md); what is a multi-homed device.
* Snort; rules; purpose; method of action; syntax; modes; raw output manipulation \(regex?\); arrows; Snort configuration in Linux and Windows; features; modes of operation.
* False positives, false negatives. Host based IDS; Network based IDS; IDS Definition; methods, signature list; behavior based detection, _lib-whisker_ PERL library for HTTP functions, vuln scanning, exploitation and IDS evasion. 
* Use of Wireshark, filters syntax; how to display HTTP, TCP, follow TCP conversation
* MAC Spoofing; definition, goal, IRDP spoofing = attacker floods ICMP Router Discovery Protocol messages through the network to redirect traffic to a determined gateway; DNS poisoning and similarities with ARP poisoning; ARP poisoning; definition; defenses on modern devices \(DHCP snooping and Dynamic ARP Inspection in the case of IOS\). Tools to prevent it include XArp; OS level mitigation includes static configuration of default gateway MAC address via _arp -s_ command. ARP flooding tools: Cain and Abel; WinArpAttacker; Ufasoft and dnsniff \(linux tools collection including ARPspoof\); ARP exchange steps - ARP\_REQUEST, ARP\_REPLY; How gratuitous ARP messages are offered before the hosts asks for them; MAC flooding; definition; method; effect, filling up content addressable memory \(CAM\) table.
* DHCP starvation; definition; [DHCP Protocol](network-and-systems/topics/network/dhcp.md); DHCP Messages. Yersinia, DHCPstarv; Rogue DHCP servers, + DHCP starvation could allow redirection determined by the attacker. 
* FTP - user ID + passwd authentication --&gt; anonymous accounts, plaintext credentials; TFTP - all data in clear-text - can be sniffed raw. 
* Microsoft Windows - storage of authentication credentials, passwd hashing; SAM file location; method of passwd storage is vulnerable due to low complexity; Windows 2000, NT LAN Manager, to hash passwds. Windows Vista. NTLMv2; Kerberos; KDC, Authentication Service; Ticket Granting Service TGS and Ticket Granting Ticket \(TGT\).
* Web organizations: IEFT, RFCs \(Request for comments and the most important Networking, Security, and Encryption ones.\) [World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C\)](https://www.w3.org); [OWASP](https://www.owasp.org) is a 501\(c\)\(3\) or non-profit, what does it do, its contributions to web security \([Top 10, ](infosec/topics/recon/web/owasp-top-10.md)being one\), WebGoat \(Vulnerable web application\). 
* Web-servers; what are they, what are the most common and relevant ones such as Apache, Microsoft's IIS; How to configure Apache securely; use of http.conf - this file controls aspects regarding who can view the server status page \(containing information related to server status, the hosts that are connected and the requests that the server is handling; files like php.inf contain information for verbose error messaging setting.  its modules; IIS and the role of Privileges within environments using this web-server, spawning shells with IIS ; Modular character of IIS, its core and modules as well as libraries; Common web-server attack vectors such as: misconfigurations attacks, error messages, default passwords and how to change them, SSL Certificates, scripts, implement appropriate controls on remote administrative functions, configuration files, and eliminating services that are not needed on the machine; default accounts and how to change them; Most common attack vectors: Password attacks, Denial of Service DDoS, Man In the Middle \(MiTM or Sniffing\), DNS poisoning \(hijacking\), and phishing. DNS amplification \(how to manipulate recursive DNS to DoS the target.\); Use of a botnet, possible DNS attacks with it.
* N-tier architecture - multilayer architecture; distributing roles across several different servers, each tier consisting of a role mapped to one of more \(in the case of clusters\) of machines. Oftentimes 3 layers are employed: Presentation, Logic and Data tiers as a common implementation but not the only one. 
* HTML entity instructs the browser to display certain characters i.e **&nbsp;** and **&lt;.** HTTP request methods such as GET, HEAD, POST, PUT, DELETE, TRACE, and CONNECT; Proxies ability to modify POST, GET requests; Where can we find each method's traffic \(GET displayed by the browser, POST visible with packet capture\); HTTP HEAD, headers and metadata; Differences with HTTP GET \(does not display body information within the browser\); GET can be used to send data, HOW? What is the downside? \(Data gets added to the URL\); Does POST do this? 
* Directory Traversal, common on older machines \(unauthorized access of restricted directories and execution of commands in directories other than the web-server's; ../ attack or non-validated input attack.; Unicode, what is it? use cases and risks, relationship between HTTP GET and non-validated input - command execution, brute-force of administrative access passwds, etc.; URL Tampering/unauthorized manipulation of parameters within the URL, the goal is to modify settings and achieve escalation of privileges, credentials and potentially business data; Password and SSH brute-forcing; Web defacing/vandalism - unauthorized

  changing appearances of websites

* Use of Metasploit; pre-loaded with Telnet, SSH, and HTTP modules to automatically take advantage of previously published CVEs, perform passwd attacks as well as configure custom payloads; create custom modules \(\), plug-ins and interfaces \(Armitage\); Additionally, Post-exploitation tools such as **multi/handler** are specially useful. 
* Web 1.0 vs Web 2.0 differences - static vs dynamic web page content. \(Better suited for social media\) - Since there are more capabilities built in the websites, more attack surface is also a downside of this evolution. 
* Web Application attacks include: arbitrary command execution via injecting them into the input string, this is possible due to poor input validation in the application; Methods include _file injection \(_attacker injects a pointer in form input to an exploit hosted elsewhere_\)_, _command injection \(_attacker injects commands into the form fields instead of expected test entry_\), shell injection \(_attacker attempts to gain shell access by executing OS commands on the server running the web-app_\)._
* **SOAP injection -** Simple Object Access Protocol \(SOAP\) - Goal is to exchange structured information in web services, uses XML as formatting to present the information. Injection of malicious query strings \(Similar to SQL injection\) - allows authentication bypass and database access in the back-end, compatibility with HTTP and SMTP are usually 1-way.; **Stack smashing, Buffer Overflows attack** - the goal is to overwrite the application's pre-determined memory buffer area, replace what's supposed to be in there and execute arbitrary code or make an application crash; **Cross-site scripting \(XSS\)** - the goal is injection of a script in a form field that had a storage purpose. XSS classic attack vector involves access to "document.cookie" and sending it to the remote hosts; **Cross-site request forgery \(CSRF\)** - attack vector that forces the end user to execute unwanted actions on a web application in which they are authenticated. CSRF makes the target inadvertently submitting a malicious request; **Session fixation attacks**, similar to CSRF, attacker fetches a "session ID" that is sent in a Phishing email to target, when the victim clicks and logs in to the site, the attacker is now able to use the same "session ID" to log in and use the user's access.; _**Cookies**:_ small text file stored on client machine for use by the web server. Contains information such as authentication details, site preferences, shopping cart, in general session details, they can contain _some_ of this data or all. Sent in Header of HTTP response from a web server, may or may not have an expiration date. Goal: provide a stable web view for customers and speed up access for repeated visitors; **HTTP response splitting -** works adding header response data to an input field so the server splits the response in a couple directions. If successful, attacker controls the content of the second header, versatile—i.e redirecting the user to a malicious site the attacker runs.; **SQL \(Structured Query Language\) injection** common and successful injection attack. SQL's goal is: management of data in relational database systems. RDBS are collections of tables \(rows, hold individual fields of data\) tied using a common key, may be updated and queried; Tables have a name, referenced in queries or updates. SQL provides a method to add, delete, move, update, or view the data these tables and fields; SQL queries often begin with SELECT. **SELECT** chooses the data to perform an action on. i.e, **DROP TABLE** _**tablename**_ will delete the table _tablename_. There's also INSERT and UPDATE; SQL injection occurs when attacker injects SQL queries into the input form. The goal is for the SQL command to bypass the front end and the command is executed on the database. To check if a system is vulnerable against SQL injection, check target for login page, instead of entering what’s asked for, try a single quote \(**'**\) and see what kind of error message, if any, it returns. If that doesn’t work, try entering _**anything**_**'or 1=1-** and see what you get. Attack names and definitions for SQL such as union query, tautology, blind SQL injection, and error-based SQL injection; security testing \(hacking\) a web application _sometimes_ is to try using it in a way it wasn’t intended; **Countermeasures for web server and application attacks:** server perimeter and strong patch management; disabling unnecessary services, ports, and protocols; removing outdated, unused accounts and properly configuring default accounts; appropriate file-system permissions and disabling directory listing; ensuring monitoring and incident response are in place; Automated scanners for injection vulnerabilities: Sqlmap, Havij, and sqlninja . SQLBrute \(predefined SQL injection queries\) against a target. Others tools include Pangolin, SQLExec, Absinthe, and BobCat.
* Wireless:  802.11 **standards**... 802.11a - up to 54 Mbps, uses 5 GHz range; 802.11b - 11 Mbps, 2.4 GHz; 802.11g - 54 Mbps, 2.4 GHz;  802.11n  + 100 Mbps, variety of ranges in **MIMO format** 2.4 and 5 GHz; 802.11i \(amendment to 802.11, specifies security mechanisms for the WLAN\); 802.16 \(WiMAX\); 802.11an and 802.11ax are soon to be seen; **Modulation**—manipulating a waveform—encoding in wireless. Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing \(**OFDM**\) and direct-sequence spread spectrum \(**DSSS**\) use pieces of a waveform to carry a signal. OFDM uses several waveforms: the transmission media is divided into a series of frequency bands that don’t overlap each other, and each of them can then be used to carry a separate signal. DSSS works differently by _combining_ all the available waveforms into a single purpose; the entire frequency bandwidth can be used at once for the delivery of a message; **Wireless Modes**: Ad Hoc Mode, wireless systems connect directly to other systems, as if a cable were strung between the two. Infrastructure mode uses an access point **\(AP\)** to funnel all wireless connections through, and clients associate and authenticate to it. Wireless networks can consist of a single access point or multiple ones, thus creating overlapping cells and allowing a user to roam freely without losing connectivity. The client needs to associate with an access point first and then disassociate when it moves to the next one; When there is a **single access point**, its footprint is called a **basic service area \(BSA\).** Communication between this single AP and its clients is known as a basic service set \(BSS\). If you extend the range of your network by adding multiple access points, the setup is known as an extended service set \(ESS\). As a client moves from one AP in your subnet to another, so long as everything is configured correctly, it’ll disassociate from one AP and \(re\)associate with another seamlessly. This movement across multiple APs within a single ESS is known as **“roaming.”**
* **Type of antennas** used \(omnidirectional antenna - 360 degrees from the source, 

  Directional antennas allow you to focus the signal in a specific direction, which greatly increases signal strength and distance. Other antennas you can use are dipole and parabolic grid. Dipole antennas have, quite obviously, two signal “towers” and work omnidirectionally. Parabolic grid antennas work a lot like satellite dishes and can have phenomenal range \(up to 10 miles\) but aren’t in use much.\), **where** to place them and how to **contain or corral** the signal; Avoid **spillage** and **loss** of **power** of the **signal;** Service set identifier **\(SSID\) identifies** the network. \(text word - 32 characters or less\). Can be hidden through “SSID cloaking” though ineffective since the SSID is part of the header on every packet; WLAN **Authentication**: **Open** System Authentication \(client can simply send an 802.11 authentication frame with the appropriate SSID to an AP and have it answer with a verification frame.\), **Shared Key** Authentication \(the client would participate in a challenge/request scenario, with the AP verifying a decrypted “key” for authentication\), and **Centralized** Authentication \(i.e, RADIUS - An authentication server provides centralized authentication services in the Domain/Network\).  . . _**Association**_ ****is the action of a client connecting to an AP, whereas _**authentication**_ ****identifies the client before it accesses the network.; **WEP,** Wired Equivalent Privacy, weak 40 to 232-bit keys in RC4 encryption, reuses initialization vectors \(IVs\) - sent in clear text as part of the header, are small and, reused, these can be abused to, with enough captured packets, decode the WEP shared key IV; WEP, Aircrack can use a **dictionary** technique, or algorithmic processes called **PTW, FMS**, and the **Korek** technique, **only dictionary** against WPA/WPA2; Cain and Abel and Aircrack \(both use Korek, but Aircrack is faster\) as well as KisMAC, WEPCrack, and Elcomsoft’s Wireless Security Auditor tool; **Wi-Fi Protected Access \(WPA\)** or **WPA2 \(government and the enterprise\)** uses **Temporal Key Integrity Protocol \(TKIP\)**, a **128-bit** key, client’s MAC address much stronger encryption. WPA changes the key out \(“_temporal_ key integrity protocol tkip”\). Keys are exchanged with **Extensible Authentication Protocol \(EAP\)** authentication session, four-step handshake process proving client belongs to AP; **WPA2** _**Enterprise**,_ EAP or a RADIUS server into authentication \(AES for encryption, FIPS 140-2. Integrity, uses the Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol \(CCMP\), with message integrity codes \(MICs\), process called cipher block chaining message authentication code \(CBC-MAC\), allows use of Kerberos tickets. 

* [AirPcap dongle ](https://www.riverbed.com/document/fpo/AirPcap-Frequently-Asked-Questions.pdf)USB wireless. [WIGLE](http://wigle.net) identifying locations of wireless networks; teams have mapped wireless locations using GPS and a tool called NetStumbler. [NetStumbler](www.netstumbler.com) \(identifying poor coverage locations within an ESS, detecting interference causes, finding any rogue APs. Windows, compatible with 802.11a, b, and g.; **Kismet** - wireless discovery, works on Linux, unlike NetStumbler, works passively, detects APs and clients without sending packets. Can detect default configurations on access points \(out-of-the-box admin password\) will determine encryption on target. “Channel Hops”, has the ability to sniff packets and generate pcaps; NetSurveyor similar to NetStumbler and Kismet —other tools for wireless sniffing include NetStumbler, Kismet, OmniPeek, AirMagnet WiFi Analyzer Pro, and WiFi Pilot; **Wireless Attacks** such as**: rogue AP** \(attacker sets up an access point near legitimate APs and tricks users into associating and authenticating with it - aka - “Evil twin” - aka-  “mis-association attack."\) Faking a well-known hotspot on a rogue AP \(McDonald’s or Starbucks free Wi-Fi spots\) is “honeyspot attack.”; **Denial-of-service;** **Wireless Signal jamming**, using jamming device and, high-gain antenna/amplifier. All wireless devices are susceptible to jamming/interference. 
* [\(OWASP\) - mobile security ](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Mobile_Security_Project)and [Top 10 mobile risks](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Mobile_Top_10_2016-Top_10).: M1 – Improper Platform Usage, M2 – Insecure Data Storage, M3 – Insecure Communication, M4 – Insecure Authentication, M5 – Insufficient Cryptography, M6 – Insecure Authorization, M7 – Client Code Quality, M8 – Code Tampering, M9 – Reverse Engineering, and M10 – Extraneous Functionality.  ; [Android ](https://www.android.com/)and [iOS](www.apple.com/ios/). By Google for mobile devices, OS + middleware + mobile applications. iOS = Apple’s for mobile \(iPhone and iPad , Apple TV and iPods\). mobile apps + AI voice assistant \(Siri\); Android or iOS system access = rooting/ jailbreaking. Android rooting KingoRoot, [TunesGo](https://tunesgo.wondershare.com), [OneClickRoot,](https://oneclickroot.com) and [MTK Droid.](https://androidmtk.com)  ; jailbreaking tools include: evasi0n7, GeekSn0w, Pangu, Redsn0w, Absinthe, and Cydia. There are three basic techniques and three different types, regardless which tool you want to try. Techniques include **untethered** \(**kernel will remain patched**—jailbroken—after reboot, with or without system connection\), semi-tethered \(reboot no longer retains the patched kernel but the software has already been added to the device; therefore, if admin privileges are required, the installed jailbreaking tool can be used\), and tethered \(reboot removes jailbreak, phone may loop on startup requiring USB, to repair\). **3 types of jailbreak**: Userland \(user access, not admin\), iBoot, and BootROM \(admin access\); Mobile attack vector comes from the apps. Others include social engineering, phishing, and physical security. [Android Device Administration API ](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/admin/device-admin)system device administration allowing development of security apps.; **BYOD**—Bring Your Own Device—users bring own smartphones, tablets to the network. **Problem is security and control**. Mobile Device Management \(MDM\), like Group Policy, some control to enterprise mobile devices. MDM pushes security policies, application deployment, and monitoring of mobile. MDM offer: passcodes for unlocking, remote locking, remote wipe, root or jailbreak detection, policy enforcement, inventory, and reporting. Some solutions are **XenMobile, IBM MaaS360, AirWatch, and MobiControl.  ; 3G, 4G**, and **Bluetooth** connectivity means to know. Third- and Fourth-gen mobile telecom, broadband-type speeds. Bluetooth open wireless data exchange, short range \(10m &gt;\). **2 modes**: discovery mode and pairing mode. Discovery mode determines device reacts to inquiries, and it has **three actions**. The **discoverable action** obviously has the device answer to all inquiries, **limited discoverable** restricts that action, and **non discoverable** device ignore all inquiries.;  **Discovery** mode device it’s available, **pairing** details how device will react when asked to pair. two versions: yes, and no. **Non Pairable** rejects connection, **pairable** accepts all.; **Attacks** on mobile: **phishing , social engineering**. **SMS phishing -** text messaging; **Trojans,** Android Trojans: Obad, Fakedefender, TRAMP.A, and ZitMo. **Spyware**: Mobile Spy and Spyera, listen or even watch the target. AndroidLost, Find My Phone, and Where’s My Droid designed **find lost phones**, but can be used to track users; Mobile also attack platform. Network Spoofer control how websites appear on a desktop/laptop. DroidSheep perform sidejacking listening to wireless packets and pulling session IDs. Nmap works on mobile device. Kali Linux Nethunter. [NetCut ](www.arcai.com/netcut/)able to identify and drop Wi-Fi for a target  ; **Bluetooth attacks:** Bluesmacking \(denial-of-service\), **Bluejacking** \(unsolicited messages to, and from, mobile devices\), **Bluesniffing** \(discover Bluetooth-like war driving\), **Bluebugging** \(accessing a Bluetooth device remotely\), **Bluesnarfing** \(theft of data from a mobile device due to an open connection—such as remaining in discovery mode\), and **Blueprinting** \(footprinting\).



  The Internet of Things \(IoT\) can be defined as a collection of devices using sensors, software, storage, and electronics to collect, analyze, store, and share data among themselves or to a user. It refers to a network of devices with IP addresses that have the capability of sensing, collecting, and sending data to each other—basically a web of connected devices made possible by machine-to-machine communications, large availability of storage, and internetworked communications. IoT technologies extend Internet connectivity beyond “standard” devices, such as desktops, laptops, smartphones, and tablets, to any range of traditionally non-network-enabled physical devices and everyday objects.



  IoT architecture comes down to three basic components—things using sensing technology, IoT gateways, and the cloud \(or put another way, data storage availability\). A thing inside the IoT is defined as any device implanted somewhere with the ability \(and purpose\) of communicating on the network. Embedded with technology, IoT devices can communicate and interact over the Internet, and oftentimes can be remotely monitored and controlled. Each of these things has some form of sensing technology. In other words, sensors are embedded in the device to measure and forward data.



  IoT OS examples include RIOT OS, ARM mbed OS, RealSense OS X, Nucleus RTOS, Brillo, Contiki, Zephyr, Ubuntu Core, Integrity RTOS, and Apache Mynewt. There are four IoT communication models—device to device, device to gateway, device to cloud, and back-end data sharing. All work exactly as their names suggest, with only a couple of knowledge nuggets you can tuck away for test purposes. Device to gateway adds a collective before sending to cloud, which can be used to offer some security controls, and back-end data sharing is almost exactly like device to cloud; however, it adds the ability for third parties to collect and use the data.



  Once a thing has sensed and collected data, it forwards that data to the next component, the IoT gateway. This is designed to send collected data from devices to the user or to the third component, data storage or cloud, for use later. The cloud stores and analyzes data, providing information back for future queries. The Vehicle Ad Hoc Network \(VANET\) is the communications network used by our vehicles. It refers to the spontaneous creation of a wireless network for vehicle-to-vehicle \(V2V\) data exchange.



  Architecture layers inside IoT: Edge Technology Layer, Access Gateway Layer, Internet Layer, Middleware Layer, and Application Layer. [IEEE maintains journal IoT](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/RecentIssue.jsp?punumber=6488907), and [ITU - news articles about current IoT efforts.](https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-T/ssc/resources/Pages/topic-001.aspx);   [OWASP Top 10 for IoT](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top_IoT_Vulnerabilities); Attacks include: DDoS \(distributed denial of service\), Sybil attack, multiple forged identities create the illusion of traffic congestion in the local network. HVAC attacks in IoT attacks. Hack IoT to shut down air conditioning.

  **"rolling code" and BlueBorne**. key fob unlock code is = rolling/hopping. Attacks sniff for first part of the code, jam the key fob, and sniff/copy the second part. BlueBorne attack is basically an amalgamation of techniques and attacks against known, already existing Bluetooth vulnerabilities; [HackRF One ](https://greatscottgadgets.com)\(\). Mirai malware purposefully looks for and interjects itself onto IoT devices. After successful infiltration, it basically propagates and creates gigantic botnets—with the primary purpose of DDoS attacks thereafter.



  The IoT hacking methodology phases are information gathering, vulnerability scanning, launching attacks, gaining access, and maintaining access. Shodan \(https://www.shodan.io/\) is often referred to as the search engine for everything and is a good start in information gathering. Some other tools to assist in information gathering include Censys \(https://censys.io\) and Thingful \(www.thingful.net\).



  The second phase in IoT hacking methodology, vulnerability scanning, is exactly as it sounds. There are several vulnerability scanners and assessment tools for IoT devices, and more are coming every day. EC-Council lists Nmap as an option. Beyond Trust offer a couple of tools for IoT scanning, including RIoT Vulnerability Scanner \(https://www.beyondtrust.com/resources/data-sheet/retina-iot-riot-scanner/\) and beSTORM \(https://www.beyondsecurity.com/bestorm.html\). Some other tools are IoTsploit \(https://iotsploit.com\) and IoT Inspector \(www.iot-inspector.com\).



  In the launching attacks phase, IoT hacking tools include Firmalyzer \(https://firmalyzer.com, for performing active security assessments on IoT devices\), KillerBee \(https://github.com\), JTAGulator \(www.grandideastudio.com\), and Attify Zigbee Framework \(https://www.attify.com, providing a suite of tools for testing Zigbee devices\).



  The last two phases are gaining access and then maintaining access. Telnet is often leveraged in IoT devices and provides a rather easy means to gain access. Once there you can, of course, install backdoors, malware, or force firmware updates to ensure you can maintain a presence. Sniffers for IoT traffic include Foren6 \(http://cetic.github.io/foren6/\), Z-Wave \(www.suphammer.com\), and CloudShark \(https://www.cloudshark.org\).

